text
"REASON FOR CONSULTATION: , Thyroid mass diagnosed as papillary carcinoma.,HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:  ,The patient is a 16-year-old young lady, who was referred from the Pediatric Endocrinology Department by Dr. X for evaluation and surgical recommendations regarding treatment of a mass in her thyroid, which has now been proven to be papillary carcinoma on fine needle aspiration biopsy.  The patient's parents relayed that they first noted a relatively small but noticeable mass in the middle portion of her thyroid gland about 2004.  An ultrasound examination had reportedly been done in the past and the mass is being observed.  When it began to enlarge recently, she was referred to the Pediatric Endocrinology Department and had an evaluation there.  The patient was referred for fine needle aspiration and the reports recently returned a diagnosis of papillary thyroid carcinoma.  The patient has not had any hoarseness, difficulty swallowing, or any symptoms of endocrine dysfunction.  She has no weight changes consistent with either hyper or hypothyroidism.  There is no family history of thyroid cancer in her family.  She has no notable discomfort with this lesion.  There have been no skin changes.  Historically, she does not have a history of any prior head and neck radiation or treatment of any unusual endocrinopathy.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:,  Essentially unremarkable.  The patient has never been hospitalized in the past for any major illnesses.  She has had no prior surgical procedures.,IMMUNIZATIONS: , Current and up to date.,ALLERGIES: , She has no known drug allergies.,CURRENT MEDICATIONS:  ,Currently taking no routine medications.  She describes her pain level currently as zero.,FAMILY HISTORY: , There is no significant family history, although the patient's father does note that his mother had a thyroid surgery at some point in life, but it was not known whether this was for cancer, but he suspects it might have been for goiter.  This was done in Tijuana.  His mom is from central portion of Mexico.  There is no family history of multiple endocrine neoplasia syndromes.,SOCIAL HISTORY:  ,The patient is a junior at Hoover High School.  She lives with her mom in Fresno.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: , A careful 12-system review was completely normal except for the problems related to the thyroid mass.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,GENERAL:  The patient is a 55.7 kg, nondysmorphic, quiet, and perhaps slightly apprehensive young lady, who was in no acute distress.  She was alert and oriented x3 and had an appropriate affect.,HEENT:  The head and neck examination is most significant.  There is mild amount of facial acne.  The patient's head, eyes, ears, nose, and throat appeared to be grossly normal.,NECK:  There is a slightly visible midline bulge in the region of the thyroid isthmus.  A firm nodule is present there, and there is also some nodularity in the right lobe of the thyroid.  This mass is relatively hard, slightly fixed, but not tethered to surrounding tissues, skin, or muscles that I can determine.  There are some shotty adenopathy in the area.  No supraclavicular nodes were noted.,CHEST:  Excursions are symmetric with good air entry.,LUNGS:  Clear.,CARDIOVASCULAR:  Normal.  There is no tachycardia or murmur noted.,ABDOMEN:  Benign.,EXTREMITIES:  Extremities are anatomically correct with full range of motion.,GENITOURINARY:  External genitourinary exam was deferred at this time and can be performed later during anesthesia.  This is same as too for her rectal examination.,SKIN:  There is no acute rash, purpura, or petechiae.,NEUROLOGIC:  Normal and no focal deficits.  Her voice is strong and clear.  There is no evidence of dysphonia or vocal cord malfunction.,DIAGNOSTIC STUDIES: , I reviewed laboratory data from the Diagnostics Lab, which included a mild abnormality in the AST at 11, which is slightly lower than the normal range.  T4 and TSH levels were recorded as normal.  Free thyroxine was normal, and the serum pregnancy test was negative.  There was no level of thyroglobulin recorded on this.  A urinalysis and comprehensive metabolic panel was unremarkable.  A chest x-ray was obtained, which I personally reviewed.  There is a diffuse pattern of tiny nodules in both lungs typical of miliary metastatic disease that is often seen in patients with metastatic thyroid carcinoma.,IMPRESSION/PLAN: , The patient is a 16-year-old young lady with a history of thyroid mass that is now biopsy proven as papillary.  The pattern of miliary metastatic lesions in the chest is consistent with this diagnosis and is unfortunate in that it generally means a more advanced stage of disease.  I spent approximately 30 minutes with the patient and her family today discussing the surgical aspects of the treatment of this disease.  During this time, we talked about performing a total thyroidectomy to eradicate as much of the native thyroid tissue and remove the primary source of the cancer in anticipation of radioactive iodine therapy.  We talked about sentinel node dissection, and we spent significant amount of time talking about the possibility of hypoparathyroidism if all four of the parathyroid glands were damaged during this operation.  We also discussed the recurrent laryngeal and external laryngeal branches of the nerve supplying the vocal cord function and how they cane be damaged during the thyroidectomy as well.  I answered as many of the family's questions as they could mount during this stressful time with this recent information supplied to them.  I also did talk to them about the chest x-ray pattern, which was complete __________ as the film was just on the day prior to my clinic visit.  This will have some impact on the postoperative adjunctive therapy.  The radiologist commented about the risk of pulmonary fibrosis and the use of radioactive iodine in this situation, but it seems likely that is going to be necessary to attempt to treat this disease in the patient's case.  I did discuss with them the possibility of having to take large doses of calcium and vitamin D in the event of hypoparathyroidism if that does happen, and we also talked about possibly sparing parathyroid tissue and reimplanting it in a muscle belly either in the neck or forearm if that becomes a necessity.  All of the family's questions have been answered.  This is a very anxious and anxiety provoking time in the family.  I have made every effort to get the patient under schedule within the next 48 hours to have this operation done.  We are tentatively planning on proceeding this upcoming Friday afternoon with total thyroidectomy."
"PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:,  Prior history of neoplastic polyps.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:,  Small rectal polyps/removed and fulgurated.,PREMEDICATIONS:,  Prior to the colonoscopy, the patient complained of a sever headache and she was concerned that she might become ill.  I asked the nurse to give her 25 mg of Demerol IV.,Following the IV Demerol, she had a nausea reaction.  She was then given 25 mg of Phenergan IV.  Following this, her headache and nausea completely resolved.  She was then given a total of 7.5 mg of Versed with adequate sedation.  Rectal exam revealed no external lesions.  Digital exam revealed no mass.,REPORTED PROCEDURE:,  The P160 colonoscope was used.  The scope was placed in the rectal ampulla and advanced to the cecum.  Navigation through the sigmoid colon was difficult.  Beginning at 30 cm was a very tight bend.  With gentle maneuvering, the scope passed through and then entered the cecum.  The cecum, ascending colon, hepatic flexure, transverse colon, splenic flexure, and descending colon were normal.  The sigmoid colon was likewise normal.  There were five very small (punctate) polyps in the rectum.  One was resected using the electrocautery snare and the other four were ablated using the snare and cautery.  There was no specimen because the polyps were so small.  The scope was retroflexed in the rectum and no further abnormality was seen, so the scope was straightened, withdrawn, and the procedure terminated.,ENDOSCOPIC IMPRESSION:,1.  Five small polyps as described, all fulgurated.,2.  Otherwise unremarkable colonoscopy."
"PROCEDURE PERFORMED: , Esophagogastroduodenoscopy performed in the emergency department.,INDICATION: , Melena, acute upper GI bleed, anemia, and history of cirrhosis and varices.,FINAL IMPRESSION,1.  Scope passage massive liquid in stomach with some fresh blood near the fundus, unable to identify source due to gastric contents.,2.  Endoscopy following erythromycin demonstrated grade I esophageal varices.  No stigmata of active bleeding.  Small amount of fresh blood within the hiatal hernia.  No definite source of bleeding seen.,PLAN,1.  Repeat EGD tomorrow morning following aggressive resuscitation and transfusion.,2.  Proton-pump inhibitor drip.,3.  Octreotide drip.,4.  ICU bed.,PROCEDURE DETAILS:  ,Prior to the procedure, physical exam was stable.  During the procedure, vital signs remained within normal limits.  Prior to sedation, informed consent was obtained.  Risks, benefits, and alternatives including, but not limited to risk of bleeding, infection, perforation, adverse reaction to medication, failure to identify pathology, pancreatitis, and death explained to the patient and his wife, who accepted all risks.  The patient was prepped in the left lateral position.  IV sedation was given to a total of fentanyl 100 mcg and midazolam 4 mg for the initial EGD.  An additional 50 mcg of fentanyl and 2 mg of midazolam were given following erythromycin.  Scope tip of the Olympus gastroscope was passed into the esophagus.  Proximal, middle, and distal thirds of the esophagus were well visualized.  There was fresh blood in the esophagus, which was washed thoroughly, but no source was seen.  No evidence of varices was seen.  The stomach was entered.  The stomach was filled with very large clot and fresh blood and liquid, which could not be suctioned due to the clot burden.  There was a small amount of bright red blood near the fundus, but a source could not be identified due to the clot burden.  Because of this, the gastroscope was withdrawn.  The patient was given 250 mg of erythromycin in the Emergency Department and 30 minutes later, the scope was repassed.  On the second look, the esophagus was cleared.  The liquid gastric contents were cleared.  There was still a moderate amount of clot burden in the stomach, but no active bleeding was seen.  There was a small grade I esophageal varices, but no stigmata of bleed.  There was also a small amount of fresh blood within the hiatal hernia, but no source of bleeding was identified.  The patient was hemodynamically stable; therefore, a decision was made for a second look in the morning.  The scope was withdrawn and air was suctioned.  The patient tolerated the procedure well and was sent to recovery without immediate complications."
"HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: , The patient is a 35-year-old woman who reports that on the 30th of October 2008, she had a rupture of her membranes at nine months of pregnancy, and was admitted to hospital and was given an epidural anesthetic.  I do not have the records from this hospital admission, but apparently the epidural was administered for approximately 14 to 18 hours.  She was sitting up during the epidural.,She did not notice any difference in her lower extremities at the time she had the epidural; however, she reports that she was extremely sleepy and may not have been aware of any change in strength or sensation in her lower extremities at that time.  She delivered on the 31st of October, by Cesarean section, because she had failed to progress and had pyrexia.,She also had a Foley catheter placed at that time.  On the 1st of November 2008, they began to mobilize her and it was at that time that she first noticed that she could not walk.  She was aware that she could not move her legs at all, and then within a few days, she was aware that she could move toes in the left foot but could not move her right foot at all.  Since that time, there has been a gradual improvement in strength to the point that she now has limited movement in her left leg and severely restricted movement in her right leg.  She is not able to walk by herself, and needs assistance to stand.  She was discharged from hospital after the Cesarean section on the 3rd of November.  Unfortunately, we do not have the records and we do not know what the discussion was between the anesthesiologist and the patient at the time of discharge.  She was then seen at ABC Hospital on November 05, 2008.  She had an MRI scan of her spine, which showed no evidence of an abnormality, specifically there were no cord changes and no evidence of a hematoma.  She also had an EMG study at that time by Dr. X, which was abnormal but not diagnostic and this was repeated again in December.  At the present time, she also complains of a pressure in both her legs and in her thighs.  She complains that her right foot hurts and that she has some hyperesthesia there.  She has been taking gabapentin to try to reduce the discomfort, although she is on a very low dose and the effect is minimal.  She has no symptoms in her arms, her bowel and bladder function is normal, and her bulbar function is normal.  There is no problem with her vision, swallowing, or respiratory function.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: , Unremarkable except as noted above.  She has seasonal allergies.,CURRENT MEDICATIONS:,  Gabapentin 300 mg b.i.d., Centrum once a day, and another multivitamin.,ALLERGIES: , She has no medication allergies, but does have seasonal allergies.,FAMILY HISTORY: , There is a family history of diabetes and hypertension.  There is no family history of a neuropathy or other neurological disease.  She has one child, a son, born on October 31, 2008.,SOCIAL HISTORY: , The patient is a civil engineer, who currently works from home.  She is working approximately half time because of limitations imposed on her by her disability, need to attend frequent physical therapy, and also the needs of looking after her baby.  She does not smoke and does not drink and has never done either.,GENERAL PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,VITAL SIGNS:  P 74, BP 144/75, and a pain score of 0.,GENERAL:  Her general physical examination was unremarkable.,CARDIOVASCULAR:  Normal first and second heart sound, regular pulse with normal volume.,RESPIRATORY:  Unremarkable, both lung bases were clear, and respiration was normal.,GI:  Unremarkable, with no organomegaly and normal bowel sounds.,NEUROLOGICAL EXAM:,MSE:  The patient's orientation was normal, fund of knowledge was normal, memory was normal, speech was normal, calculation was normal, and immediate and long-term recall was normal.  Executive function was normal.,CRANIAL NERVES:  The cranial nerve examination II through XII was unremarkable.  Both disks were normal, with normal retina.  Pupils were equal and reactive to light.  Eye movements were full.  Facial sensation and strength was normal.  Bulbar function was normal.  The trapezius had normal strength.,MOTOR:  Muscle tone showed a slight increase in tone in the lower extremities, with normal tone in the upper extremities.  Muscle strength was 5/5 in all muscle groups in the upper extremities.  In the lower extremities, the hip flexors were 1/5 bilaterally, hip extensors were 1/5 bilaterally, knee extension on the right was 1/5 and on the left was 3-/5, knee flexion was 2/5 on the right and 3-/5 on the left, foot dorsiflexion was 0/5 on the right and 1/5 on the left, foot plantar flexion was 4-/5 on the right and 4+/5 on the left, toe extension was 0/5 on the right and 4-/5 on the left, toe flexion was 4-/5 on the right and 4+/5 on the left.,REFLEXES:  Reflexes in the upper extremities were 2+ bilaterally.  In the lower extremities, they were 0 bilaterally at the knee and ankles.  The abdominal reflexes were present above the umbilicus and absent below the umbilicus.  The plantar responses were mute.  The jaw reflex was normal.,SENSATION:  Vibration was moderately decreased in the right great toe and was mildly decreased in the left great toe.  There was a sensory level to light touch at approximately T7 posteriorly and approximately T9 anteriorly.  There was a range of sensation, but clearly there was a decrease in sensation below this level but not complete loss of sensation.  To pain, the sensory level is even less clear, but appeared to be at about T7 on the right side.  In the lower extremities, there was a slight decrease in pin and light touch in the right great toe compared to the left.  There was no evidence of allodynia or hyperesthesia.  Joint position sense was mildly reduced in the right toe and normal on the left.,COORDINATION:  Coordination for rapid alternating movements and finger-to-nose testing was normal.  Coordination could not be tested in the lower extremities.,GAIT:  The patient was unable to stand and therefore we were unable to test gait or Romberg's.  There was no evidence of focal back tenderness.,REVIEW OF OUTSIDE RECORDS: , I have reviewed the records from ABC Hospital, including the letter from Dr. Y and the EMG report dated 12/17/2008 from Dr. X. The EMG report shows evidence of a lumbosacral polyradiculopathy below approximately T6.  The lower extremity sensory responses are essentially normal; however, there is a decrease in the amplitude of the motor responses with minimal changes in latency.  I do have the MRI of lumbar spine report from 11/06/2008 with and without contrast.  This showed a minimal concentric disc bulge of L4-L5 without disc herniation, but was otherwise unremarkable.  The patient brought a disc with a most recent MRI study; however, we were unable to open this on our computers.  The verbal report is that the study was unremarkable except for some gadolinium enhancement in the lumbar nerve roots.  A Doppler of the lower extremities showed no evidence of deep venous thrombosis in either lower extremity.  Chest x-ray showed some scoliosis on the lumbar spine, curve to the left, but no evidence of other abnormalities.  A CT pelvis study performed on November 07, 2008 showed some nonspecific fluid in the subcutaneous fat of the back, posterior to L4 and L5 levels; however, there were no pelvic masses or other abnormalities.  We were able to obtain an update of the report from the MRI of the lumbar spine with and without contrast dated 12/30/2008.  The complete study included the cervical, thoracic, and lumbar spine.  There was diffuse enhancement of the nerve roots of the cauda equina that had increased in enhancement since prior exam in November.  It was also reported that the patient was given intravenous methylprednisolone and this had had no effect on strength in her lower extremities.,IMPRESSION: , The patient has a condition that is temporarily related to the epidural injection she was given at the end of October 2008, prior to her Cesarean section.  It appears she became aware of weakness within two days of the administration of the epidural, she was very tired during the epidural and may have missed some change in her neurological function.  She was severely weak in both lower extremities, slightly worse on the right than the left.  There has been some interval improvement in her strength since the beginning of November 2008.  Her EMG study from the end of December is most consistent with a lumbosacral polyradiculopathy.  The MRI findings of gadolinium enhancement in the lumbar nerve roots would be most consistent with an inflammatory radiculitis most likely related to the epidural anesthesia or administration of the epidural.  There had been no response to IV methylprednisolone given to her at ABC.  The issue of having a lumbar puncture to look for evidence of inflammatory cells or an elevated protein had been discussed with her at both ABC and by myself.  The patient did not wish to consider a lumbar puncture because of concerns that this might worsen her condition.  At the present time, she is able to stand with aid but is unable to walk.  There is no evidence on her previous EMG of a demyelinating neuropathy.,RECOMMENDATIONS:,1.  The diagnostic issues were discussed with the patient at length.  She is informed that this is still early in the course of the problem and that we expect her to show some improvement in her function over the next one to two years, although it is unclear as to how much function she will regain.,2.  She is strongly recommended to continue with vigorous physical therapy, and to continue with the plan to mobilize her as much as possible, with the goal of trying to get her ambulatory.  If she is able to walk, she will need bilateral AFOs for her ankles, to improve her overall mobility.  I am not prescribing these because at the present time she does not need them.,3.  We discussed increasing the dose of gabapentin.  The paresthesias that she has may indicate that she is actually regaining some sensory function, although there is a concern that as recovery continues, she may be left with significant neuropathic pain.  If this is the case, I have advised her to increase her gabapentin dose from 300 mg b.i.d. gradually up to 300 mg four times a day and then to 600 mg to 900 mg four times a day.  She may need other neuropathic pain medications as needed.  She will determine whether her current symptoms are significant enough to require this increase in dosage.,4.  The patient will follow up with Dr. Y and his team at ABC Hospital.  She will also continue with physical therapy within the ABC system."
"PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:  ,Carcinoma of the left upper lobe.,PROCEDURES PERFORMED:,1.  Bronchoscopy with aspiration.,2.  Left upper lobectomy.,PROCEDURE DETAILS:  ,With patient in supine position under general anesthesia with endotracheal tube in place, the flexible bronchoscope was then placed down through the endotracheal tube to examine the carina.  The carina was in the midline and sharp.  Moving directly to the right side, the right upper and middle lower lobes were examined and found to be free of obstructions.  Aspiration was carried out for backlog ________ examination.  We then moved to left side, left upper lobe.  There was a tumor mass located in the lingula of the left lobe and left lower lobe found free of obstruction.  No anatomic lesions were demonstrated.  The patient was prepared for left thoracotomy rotated to his right side with a double lumen endotracheal tube in place with an NG tube and a Foley catheter.  After proper position, utilizing Betadine solution, they were draped.  A posterolateral left thoracotomy incision was performed.  Hemostasis was secured with electrocoagulation.  The chest wall muscle was then divided over the sixth rib.  The periosteum of the sixth rib was then removed superiorly and the pleural cavity was entered carefully.  At this time, the mass was felt in the left upper lobe, which measures greater than 3 cm by palpation.  We examined the superior mediastinum.  No lymph nodes were demonstrated as well as in the anterior mediastinum.  Direction was then moved to the fascia where by utilizing sharp and blunt dissection, lingual artery was separated into the left upper lobe.  Casual dissection was carried out with superior segmental arteries and left lower lobe was examined.,Dissection was carried out around the pulmonary artery thus exposing the posterior artery to the left upper lobe.  Direction was carried out to the superior pulmonary vein and utilizing sharp and blunt dissection the entire superior pulmonary vein was separated from the surrounding tissue.  From the top side, the bronchus was then separated away from the pulmonary artery anteriorly, thus exposing the apical posterior artery, which was short.  Tumor mass was close to the artery at this time.  We then directed ourselves once again to the lingual artery which was doubly ligated and cut free.  The posterior artery of the superior branch was doubly ligated and cut free also.  At this time, the bronchus of the left upper lobe was encountered in the fissure on palpation to separate the upper lobe bronchus from lower lobe bronchus and the area was accomplished.  We then moved anteriorly to doubly ligate the pulmonary vein using #00 silk sutures for ligation and a transection #00 silk suture was used to fixate the vein.  Using sharp and blunt dissection, the bronchus through the left upper lobe was freed proximal.  Using the TA 50, the bronchus was then cut free allowing the lung to fall superiorly at which time direction was carried out to the pulmonary artery where the tumor was in close proximity at this time.  A Potts clamp arterial was then placed over the artery and shaving off the tumor and the apical posterior artery was then accomplished.  The anterior artery was seen in the clamp also and was separated and ligated and separated.  At this time, the entire tumor in the left upper lobe was then removed.  ,Direction was carried to the suture where #000 silk was used as a running suture over the pulmonary artery and was here doubly run and tied in place.  The clamp was then removed.  No bleeding was seen at this time.  Lymph nodes were then removed from the sump of the separation between the upper lobe and the lower lobe and sent for separate pathology.  We then carried out incision in the inferior pulmonary ligament up to the pulmonary vein allowing the lung to reexpand to its normal position.  At this time, two chest tubes #28 and #32 were placed anteriorly and posteriorly to fixate the skin using raw silk suture.  The chest cavity was then closed.  After reexamination, no bleeding was seen with three pericostal sutures of #1 chromic double strength.  A #2-0 Polydek was then used to close the chest wall muscle the anterior as well as latissimus dorsi #000 chromic subcutaneous tissue skin clips to the skin.  The chest tubes were attached to the Pleur-Evac drainage and placed on suction at this time.  The patient was extubated in the room without difficulty and sent to Recovery in satisfactory."
"EXAM:,  CT examination of the abdomen and pelvis with intravenous contrast.,INDICATIONS:,  Abdominal pain.,TECHNIQUE:  ,CT examination of the abdomen and pelvis was performed after 100 mL of intravenous Isovue-300 contrast administration.  Oral contrast was not administered.  There was no comparison of studies.,FINDINGS,CT PELVIS:,Within the pelvis, the uterus demonstrates a thickened-appearing endometrium.  There is also a 4.4 x 2.5 x 3.4 cm hypodense mass in the cervix and lower uterine segment of uncertain etiology.  There is also a 2.5 cm intramural hypodense mass involving the dorsal uterine fundus likely representing a fibroid.  Several smaller fibroids were also suspected.,The ovaries are unremarkable in appearance.  There is no free pelvic fluid or adenopathy.,CT ABDOMEN:,The appendix has normal appearance in the right lower quadrant.  There are few scattered diverticula in the sigmoid colon without evidence of diverticulitis.  The small and large bowels are otherwise unremarkable.  The stomach is grossly unremarkable.  There is no abdominal or retroperitoneal adenopathy.  There are no adrenal masses.  The kidneys, liver, gallbladder, and pancreas are in unremarkable appearance.  The spleen contains several small calcified granulomas, but no evidence of masses.  It is normal in size.  The lung bases are clear bilaterally.  The osseous structures are unremarkable other than mild facet degenerative changes at L4-L5 and L5-S1.,IMPRESSION:,1.  Hypoattenuating mass in the lower uterine segment and cervix of uncertain etiology measuring approximately 4.4 x 2.5 x 3.4 cm.,2.  Multiple uterine fibroids.,3.  Prominent endometrium.,4.  Followup pelvic ultrasound is recommended."
"PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:,1.  Left spermatocele.,2.  Family planning.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:,1.  Left spermatocele.,2.  Family planning.,PROCEDURE PERFORMED:,1.  Left spermatocelectomy/epididymectomy.,2.  Bilateral partial vasectomy.,ANESTHESIA: , General.,ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS:,  Minimal.,SPECIMEN: , Left-sided spermatocele, epididymis, and bilateral partial vasectomy.,DISPOSITION:  ,To PACU in stable condition.,INDICATIONS AND FINDINGS: , This is a 48-year-old male with a history of a large left-sided spermatocele with significant discomfort.  The patient also has family status complete and desired infertility.  The patient was scheduled for elective left spermatocelectomy and bilateral partial vasectomy.,FINDINGS: , At this time of the surgery, significant left-sided spermatocele was noted encompassing almost the entirety of the left epididymis with only minimal amount of normal appearing epididymis remaining.,DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE:,  After informed consent was obtained, the patient was moved to the operating room.  A general anesthesia was induced by the Department of Anesthesia.,The patient was prepped and draped in the normal sterile fashion for a scrotal approach.  A #15 blade was used to make a transverse incision on the left hemiscrotum.  Electrocautery was used to carry the incision down into the tunica vaginalis and the testicle was delivered into the field.  The left testicle was examined.  A large spermatocele was noted.  Metzenbaum scissors were used to dissect the tissue around the left spermatocele.  Once the spermatocele was identified, as stated above, significant size was noted encompassing the entire left epididymis.  Metzenbaum scissors as well as electrocautery was used to dissect free the spermatocele from its testicular attachments and spermatocelectomy and left epididymectomy was completed with electrocautery.  Electrocautery was used to confirm excellent hemostasis.  Attention was then turned to the more proximal aspect of the cord.  The vas deferens was palpated and dissected free with Metzenbaum scissors.  Hemostats were placed on the two aspects of the cord, approximately 1 cm segment of cord was removed with Metzenbaum scissors and electrocautery was used to cauterize the lumen of the both ends of vas deferens and silk ties used to ligate the cut ends.  Testicle was placed back in the scrotum in appropriate anatomic position.  The dartos tissue was closed with running #3-0 Vicryl and the skin was closed in a horizontal interrupted mattress fashion with #4-0 chromic.  Attention was then turned to the right side.  The vas was palpated in the scrotum.  A small skin incision was made with a #15 blade and the vas was grasped with a small Allis clamp and brought into the surgical field.  A scalpel was used to excise the vas sheath and vas was freed from its attachments and grasped again with a hemostat.  Two ends were hemostated with hemostats and divided with Metzenbaum scissors.  Lumen was coagulated with electrocautery.  Silk ties used to ligate both cut ends of the vas deferens and placed back into the scrotum.  A #4-0 chromic suture was used in simple fashion to reapproximate the skin incision.  Scrotum was cleaned and bacitracin ointment, sterile dressing, fluffs, and supportive briefs applied.  The patient was sent to Recovery in stable condition.  He was given prescriptions for doxycycline 100 mg b.i.d., for five days and Vicodin ES 1 p.o. q.4h. p.r.n., pain, #30 for pain.  The patient is to followup with Dr. X in seven days."
"SUBJECTIVE: , The patient is admitted for shortness of breath, continues to do fairly well.  The patient has chronic atrial fibrillation, on anticoagulation, INR of 1.72.  The patient did undergo echocardiogram, which shows aortic stenosis, severe.  The patient does have an outside cardiologist.  I understand she was scheduled to undergo workup in this regard.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION,VITAL SIGNS:  Pulse of 78 and blood pressure 130/60.,LUNGS:  Clear.,HEART:  A soft systolic murmur in the aortic area.,ABDOMEN:  Soft and nontender.,EXTREMITIES:  No edema.,IMPRESSION:,1.  Status shortness of breath responding well to medical management.,2.  Atrial fibrillation, chronic, on anticoagulation.,3.  Aortic stenosis.,RECOMMENDATIONS:,1.  Continue medications as above.,2.  The patient would like to follow with her cardiologist regarding aortic stenosis.  She may need a surgical intervention in this regard, which I explained to her.  The patient will be discharged home on medical management and she has an appointment to see her cardiologist in the next few days.,In the interim, if she changes her mind or if she has any concerns, I have requested to call me back."
"DIAGNOSIS: , Ankle sprain, left ankle.,HISTORY: , The patient is a 31-year-old female who was referred to Physical Therapy secondary to a fall on 10/03/08.  The patient states that she tripped over her dog toy and fell with her left foot inverted.  The patient states that she received a series of x-rays and MRIs that were unremarkable.  After approximately 1 month, the patient continued to have significant debilitating pain in her left ankle.  She then received a walking boot and has been in the boot for the past month.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: , Significant for hypertension, asthma, and cervical cancer.  The cervical cancer was diagnosed as 15 years old.  The patient states that her cancer is ""dormant."",MEDICATIONS:,1.  Hydrochlorothiazide.,2.  Lisinopril.,3.  Percocet.,The patient states that the Percocet helps to take the edge of her pain, but does not completely eliminate it.,SUBJECTIVE: , The patient rates the pain at 2/10 on the pain analog scale.  The patient states that with elevation and rest, her pain subsides.,FUNCTIONAL ACTIVITIES/HOBBIES: , Currently limited including basic household chores and activities, this does increases her pain.  The patient states she also recently joined Weight Watchers and was involved in a walking routine and is currently unable to participate in this activity.,WORK STATUS: , The patient is currently on medical leave as a paraprofessional.  The patient states that she works as a teacher's aide in the school system and is required to complete extensive walking and standing activities.  The patient states that she is primarily on her feet while at work and rarely has a sitting break for extensive period of time.  The patient's goal is to be able to stand and walk without pain.,SOCIAL HISTORY:  ,The patient lives in a private home with children and her father.  The patient states that she does have stairs to negotiate without the use of a railing.  She states that she is able to manage the stairs, however, is very slow with her movement.  The patient smokes 1-1/2 packs of cigarettes a day and does not have a history of regular exercise routine.,OBJECTIVE: , Upon observation, the patient is a very obese female who is ambulating with significant antalgic gait pattern and altered normal gait due to the pain as well as the walking boot.  Upon inspection of the left ankle, it appears to have swelling, unsure if this swelling is secondary to injury or water retention as the patient states she has significant water retention.  When compared to right ankle edema, it is approximately equal.  There is no evidence of discoloration or temperature.  The patient states that she had no bruising at the time of injury.,Active range of motion of left ankle is as follows:  Dorsiflexion is 6 degrees past neutral and plantar flexion is 54 degrees, eversion 20 degrees, and inversion is 30 degrees.  Left ankle dorsiflexion lacks 10 degrees from neutral and plantar flexion is 36 degrees, this motion is very painful.  The patient was tearful during this activity.  Eversion is 3 degrees and inversion is 25 degrees.  The patient states this movement was difficult, but not painful.  Strength testing of the right lower extremity is grossly 4+-5/5 and left ankle is 2/5 as the patient is unable to obtain full range of motion.,PALPATION: , The patient is very tender to palpation primarily along the lateral malleolus of the left ankle.,JOINT PLAY: , Unable to be assessed secondary to the patient's extreme tenderness and guarding of the ankle joint.,SPECIAL TESTS:,  A 6-minute walk test.  The patient was able to ambulate approximately 600 feet while wearing her walking boot prior to her pain significantly increasing in the ankle and requiring the test to be stopped.,ASSESSMENT:  ,The patient would benefit from skilled physical therapy intervention as a trial of treatment in order to address the following problem list:,1.  Increased pain.,2.  Decreased range of motion.,3.  Decreased strength.,4.  Decreased ability to complete work task and functional activities in the home.,5.  Decreased gait pattern.,SHORT-TERM GOALS TO BE COMPLETED IN 3 WEEKS:,1.  The patient will demonstrate independence with home exercise program.,2.  The patient will ambulate without her boot for 48 hours in order to decrease reliance upon the boot for ankle stabilization.,3.  The patient will achieve left ankle dorsiflexion to neutral and plantar flexion to 45 degrees without significant increase in pain.,4.  The patient will demonstrate 3/5 strength of the left ankle.,5.  The patient will tolerate the completion of the 6-minute walk test without the use of a boot with minimal increase in pain.,LONG-TERM GOALS TO BE COMPLETED IN 6 WEEKS:,1.  The patient will report 0/10 pain in the 48-hour period without the use of medication and without wearing her boot.,2.  The patient will return to go through the work without the use of the walking boot with report of minimal increase in pain and discomfort.,PROGNOSIS:,  Fair for above-stated goals with full compliance to home exercise program and therapy treatment as well as the patient motivation.,PLAN: , The patient to be seen three times a week for 6 weeks for the following:"
"PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: , Mullerian adenosarcoma.  ,HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: , The patient is a 56-year-old presenting with a large mass aborted through the cervix.,PHYSICAL EXAM:,CHEST:  Clear.  There is no heart murmur.,ABDOMEN:  Nontender.,PELVIC:  There is a large mass in the vagina.  ,HOSPITAL COURSE: , The patient went to surgery on the day of admission.  The postoperative course was marked by fever and ileus.  The patient regained bowel function.  She was discharged on the morning of the seventh postoperative day.,OPERATIONS: , July 25, 2006:  Total abdominal hysterectomy, bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy.,DISCHARGE CONDITION: , Stable.,  ,PLAN: , The patient will remain at rest initially with progressive ambulation thereafter.  She will avoid lifting, driving, stairs, or intercourse.  She will call me for fevers, drainage, bleeding, or pain.  Family history, social history, and psychosocial needs per the social worker.  The patient will follow up in my office in one week.,PATHOLOGY:,  Mullerian adenosarcoma.,MEDICATIONS:,  Percocet 5, #40, one q.3 h. p.r.n. pain."
